= Postview

Just write your posts ... and view!

Postview is a simple blogware written in Ruby using Sinatra DSL that
renders files written in Markdown.

* Easy to configure.
* Easy to synchronize.

Install {Ruby}[http://www.ruby-lang.org/] Gem package and try.

== Getting start

The Postview requires the following gems:

* {Rack}[http://rack.rubyforge.org/]
* {Rack-Test}[http://github.com/brynary/rack-test]
* {Sinatra}[http://www.sinatrarb.com/]
* {Sinatra-Mapping}[http://sinatra-mapping.rubyforge.org/]
* {Maruku}[http://maruku.rubyforge.org/]
* {Postage}[http://postage.rubyforge.org/]

Install stable gem from {RubyForge.org}[http://rubyforge.org/].

  $ sudo gem install postview

Or, install development gem from {Github.com}[http://github.com/].

  $ sudo gem install hallison-postview --source http://gems.github.com/

So, run command for create and setup a new Postview directory structure.

  $ postview create path/to/website

After setup, run server with command:

  $ RACK_ENV=production postview server

NOTE: Inopportunely, Postview not run server using production environment,
yet.

In your browser, access http://localhost:9000/.

== Create new post

New post can be created by using the task `post`:

    $ cd path/to/postview
    $ rake post

Following all instructions. Please, set environment variable +EDITOR+
or +VISUAL+ for editing your posts. Ether else, run:

    $ cd path/to/postview
    $ EDITOR=<your favorite editor> rake post

The new post will be written in drafts directory. You can pass other
directory.

    $ cd path/to/postview
    $ rake post[path/to/other/post/directory]

NOTE: New feature for creates new post from blog manager will be added.

== Synchronize your posts

You can synchronize your page using the synchronize tasks. For more
information about this task, run <code>rake -D sync</code>.

It's need creates and edit file placed in +/your/home/directory/.netrc+.
The +directory+ attribute most be setted in +settings.yml+ file.

Example:

    # remote host
    /remote/path/to/postview
    `-- posts
        |-- archive
        `-- drafts
    # local host
    posts
    |-- 20090702-foo_post_article.ruby.sinatra.git.mkd
    |-- archive
    |   `-- 20080702-foo_post_article.ruby.sinatra.git.mkd
    `-- drafts
        `-- 20090703-foo_draft_article.ruby.sinatra.git.mkd

    # To synchronize posts
    $ rake sync:posts
    $ rake sync:posts[remote/path/to/postview/posts]

    # To synchronize archive
    $ rake sync:archive
    $ rake sync:archive[remote/path/to/postview/posts/archive]

    # To synchronize drafts
    $ rake sync:drafts
    $ rake sync:drafts[remote/path/to/postview/posts/drafts]

    # To synchronize all
    $ rake sync:all

